Using IHubContext in hub agnostic code (#22943)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/signalr/hubcontext.md

---
# Send messages from outside a hub

The SignalR hub is the core abstraction for sending messages to clients connected to the SignalR server. It's also possible to send messages from other places in your app using the `IHubContext` service. This article explains how to access a SignalR `IHubContext` to send notifications to clients from outside a hub.

> [!NOTE]

> > The `IHubContext` is for sending notifications to clients, it is not used to call methods on the `Hub`.

Author: So many people ask on Stackoverflow how to call hub methods from controllers...

See [Strongly typed hubs](xref:signalr/hubs#strongly-typed-hubs) for more information.

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

### Use IHubContext in generic code

An injected `IHubContext<THub>` instance can be cast to a base hub type or the `Hub` type.
`IHubContext<THub>` can also be cast to `IHubContext` without a generic `Hub` type specified.

```csharp
class BaseHub : Hub
{ }

class ChatHub : BaseHub
{ }

app.Use(async (context, next) =>
{
    var hubContext = context.RequestServices
                            .GetRequiredService<IHubContext<ChatHub>>();
    MethodA((IHubContext<BaseHub>)hubContext);

    MethodB((IHubContext<Hub>)hubContext);

>     MethodC((IHubContext)hubContext);

Reviewer: Why even bother demonstrating that the `(IHubContext<BaseHub>)` and `(IHubContext<Hub>)` casts are possible? It just adds unnecessary length to the conceptual docs when you can do all the same things by casting to `(IHubContext)` instead.

If someone really cares that it's covariant, they'll be able to see the `out THub` in the API docs, but it's suuuper niche.

    await next.Invoke();
}
```

This is useful when:

> * Writing libraries that don't have a reference to the specific `Hub` type your application is using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Writing libraries that don't have a reference to the specific `Hub` type the app is using.
```

Author: Is "app" or "application" preferred?

Reviewer 2: The style guide prefer app.
